Proper Rose Duck

medium

# Pausable Token Don't Have a Public/External Pause Function

## Summary
The MentoToken don't have an ability to pause token transactions as intended.
## Vulnerability Detail
MentoToken inherits from OpenZeppelin Pausable, so it is a pausable token. We also see that Token Pausing is written under "Areas Requiring Extra Attention" in Mento Audit Contest Documentation as:
>    **Token Pausing:** The ability to pause token transactions should not cause unintended consequences. It's important to confirm that the pause functionality does not disrupt the operation of airgrab, token locking, and governance actions. Verification that all systems resume normal operations once the token is unpaused is essential.

When we look at the contract we see that the token is paused in constructor. During this pause state, only Timelock, locking, and emission addresses can transfer tokens.
The problem is Pausable contract does not implement pause() and unpause() external/public functions itself. It is required to implement them in order to make the token pausable. While unpause() function is implemented, pause() function is not implemented. Hence when system unpaused, it won't be possible to pause it again.
## Impact
Once the token is unpaused, it is not possible to pause it again as intended. Since pausing restricts transfer and burn functionality of token, this inability to pause the token will cause unintended operations and opportunities to occur.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-mento/blob/main/mento-core/contracts/governance/MentoToken.sol/#L76
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement onlyOwner external pause() function 